feat(ipa): Add IPA-130 Dynamic Content Fields (#56)
mongodb/ipa: ipa/general/0130.md

---
id: 130

> state: experimental

Reviewer: Should we mark this as experimental or adopt? The proposed behavior is well established: if a resource returns JSON, it must not encode nested JSON as a string.

Author: From our [current guidance](https://mongodb.github.io/ipa/1#experimental) we define new IPAs as experimental. Im ok either way here, we could revisit as we get new engagements leveraging this pattern.

Reviewer: I reviewed whether this could fit into existing stable IPAs, but we currently lack content payload guidelines. We can stay with the current IPA format for now and pursue more formal guidelines for content types and formats in the future.

---

> # IPA-130: Dynamic Content Fields

Reviewer: The challenge we've seen is that String fields were used instead of object (any) fields. This means the IPA als  clarifying how we handle unstructured data — using objects rather than strings. Focusing on that in summary instead of what not to use (strings) might lead to more clarity

Author: Reframed the summary to lead with the positive guidance: dynamic JSON content should be modeled as a dynamic object type so clients and tooling can work with it natively, the serialized-string case now follows as the rationale.

Reviewer: Amazing edit! Approved

Resource properties sometimes hold a JSON value — configuration objects,
filters, metadata, templated payloads. Modeling such a property as a string
containing the serialized JSON pushes serialization concerns onto clients and
invites round-trip drift, because servers routinely normalize the JSON
(whitespace, key ordering, reformatting of nested structures). Declarative
clients then interpret the representation-level difference as state drift.

## Guidance

- Properties whose value is JSON **must** be modeled as a JSON object in
  requests and responses — never as a string holding the serialized form.
- When the JSON has a well-defined schema, the API **must** model that schema in
  the resource definition. Clients, documentation, and tooling benefit from
  knowing the shape of the content.
- When the JSON is genuinely dynamic (arbitrary client-provided keys and

>   values), the property can be modeled as an object with dynamic keys.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- When the JSON is genuinely dynamic (arbitrary client-provided keys and values), the property **may** be modeled as an object with dynamic keys.
```

Author: Dropped the **may** here on purpose: for genuinely dynamic JSON a dynamic-keys object is the only modeling left (serialized strings are ruled out above, and "model the schema" doesn't apply), so **may** read as merely optional rather than the recommendation.

Reviewer 2: In that case, if this is the guidance we provide, is it suitable to have a **should** instead? So if we really need a dynamic object, it should be modeled as an object (as opposed to string)

I think using the keywords are useful for the reader to easily understand what is more of a note/explanation and what is the guidance

Author: Good idea, like the **should** terminology here, adjusted
